Biography
Van Rossum was born and grew up in the Netherlands, where he received a master's degree in 
mathematics and computer science from the University of Amsterdam in 1982. He later worked 
for various research institutes, including the Dutch Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI), 
Amsterdam, the United States National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), 
Gaithersburg, Maryland, and the Corporation for National Research Initiatives (CNRI), Reston, 
Virginia.

Personal life
Guido van Rossum is the brother of Just van Rossum, a type designer and programmer. Just van 
Rossum designed the typeface that is used in the "Python Powered" logo. Guido lives in 
Belmont, California with his wife, Kim Knapp, and their son, Orlijn.

Work
While working at the Stichting Mathematisch Centrum (CWI), Guido van Rossum wrote and 
contributed a glob() routine to BSD Unix in 1986. Van Rossum also worked on the development 
of the ABC programming language.

Python
About the origin of Python, Van Rossum wrote in 1996:
Over six years ago, in December 1989, I was looking for a "hobby" programming project that 
would keep me occupied during the week around Christmas. My office ... would be closed, but I 
had a home computer, and not much else on my hands. I decided to write an interpreter for the 
new scripting language I had been thinking about lately: a descendant of ABC that would appeal 
to Unix/C hackers. I chose Python as a working title for the project, being in a slightly irreverent 
mood (and a big fan of Monty Python's Flying Circus).

In 2000 he further wrote:
Python's predecessor, ABC, was inspired by SETL ? Lambert Meertens spent a year with the 
SETL group at NYU before coming up with the final ABC design!

Computer Programming for Everybody
In 1999, Van Rossum submitted a funding proposal to DARPA called Computer Programming for 
Everybody, in which he further defined his goals for Python:
an easy and intuitive language just as powerful as major competitors
open source, so anyone can contribute to its development
code that is as understandable as plain English
suitability for everyday tasks, allowing for short development times
Python has grown to become a popular programming language. As of November 2011, it was 
the 3rd most popular language on the GitHub social coding website. According to a 
programming language popularity survey it is consistently amongst the top 10 most mentioned 
languages in job postings. Furthermore, python is consistently[clarification needed] in the top 
10 most popular languages according to the TIOBE Programming Community Index.

Mondrian.
Not to be confused with Mondrian (software), data visualisation software, or Mondrian OLAP 
server.
While working for Google, Van Rossum developed Mondrian, a web-based code review system 
written in Python and used within the company. He named the software after the Dutch painter 
Piet Mondrian. He named another related software project after Gerrit Rietveld, a Dutch 
designer.

Dropbox
In December 2012, Van Rossum joined the cloud file storage company Dropbox.
