Dear Sir,

I am writing in response to your request for additional information for my insurance claim. In 
block number 3 of the accident claim form I wrote, "trying to do the job alone" as the cause of 
my accident. You said in your letter that I should explain that statement more fully. I trust the 
following details will be sufficient.

I am a bricklayer by trade. On the date of the accident, I was working alone on the roof of a new 
six-story building. When I completed my work I discovered that I had about 500 pounds of 
bricks left over. Rather than carrying the bricks down by hand, I decided to lower them in a 
barrel by using a pulley which was attached to the side of the building at the sixth-floor level. 
Securing, the rope at ground level, I went up to the roof, swung the barrel out, and loaded the 
bricks into it. Then I went back down to the ground and untied the rope, holding it tightly to 
insure a slow descent of the 500 pounds of bricks. You will note in block number 22 of the claim 
form that my weight is 150 pounds.

Due to my surprise at being jerked off the ground so suddenly, I lost my presence of mind and 
forgot to let go of the rope. Needless to say, I proceeded up the side of the building at a very 
rapid rate of speed. In the vicinity of the third floor I met the barrel coming down. This explains 
my fractured skull and collarbone. Slowed only slightly, I continued my rapid ascent not 
stopping until the fingers of my right hand were two knuckles deep into the pulley.

By this time, I had regained my presence of mind and was able to hold tightly to the rope in 
spite of my pain. At approximately the same time however, the barrel of bricks hit the ground 
and the bottom fell out of the barrel. Devoid of the weight of the bricks, the barrel then 
weighed approximately 50 pounds. I refer you again to the information in block number 22 
regarding my weight. As you might imagine, I began a rapid descent down the side of the 
building. In the vicinity of the third floor I met the barrel coming up. This accounts for the two 
fractured ankles and the lacerations of my legs and lower body. This second encounter with the 
barrel slowed me enough to lessen my injuries when I fell onto the pile of bricks and 
fortunately, only three vertebrae were cracked.

I am sorry to report, however, as I lay there on the bricks in pain, unable to stand and watching 
the empty barrel six stories above me, I again lost my presence of mind and let go of the rope. 
The empty barrel weighed more than the rope, so it proceeded at a rapid decent down the side 
of the building, landing on and breaking both of my legs.

I hope I have furnished information sufficient to explain why "trying to do the job alone" was 
the stated cause of the accident.

Sincerely,

A Bricklayer
